welcome
everyone to this week's ipld sync
meeting
it's april the
12th 2021
and as every week we go over the stuff
that yeah
people worked on and have or haven't
actually worked on but have
news from other teams and share it here
um i start with myself
so i was still working on this js
multi formats in js ipfs thing
it's still the same pull requests um
and the plan looks like this so um
[Music]
the problem or like one big thing is
also that in js ipfs we also have plenty
of
examples and they use some other
bundler for their stuff and
with the whole effort of getting the js
multi-format stuff in
is also combined with a problem that js
multi-formats
is written as es6 modules and combining
es6 modules
with common js modules in javascript is
already difficult
and it gets even more difficult if you
have typescript typing in them
um yeah the problems are
all over the place but also certainly
one is
the bundlers because often they do
either support well common js or me6
modules
and so on so this might be difficult and
so my pull requests are probably good
enough
not all tests pass yet but it should be
possible to build the
the examples and run the examples so we
could at least try out if
this whole new system can work together
and hopefully the result will be that
it works and then we can polish
those pull requests again
um and yeah so
and if i say we i mean the others
because finally
i'm moving full time off to the other
team
so i won't do javascript iphone these
stuff anymore
and also the maintenance
responsibilities i have are moved over
to um
aching brain and rod um and we will do
it
um just like um on an ongoing basis so
whenever there is something that needs
to release that i'm responsible
for i will then hand over the
maintainership to them and they will do
the release because there's basically no
point of proactively going through all
the repositories i might be the
maintainer of because there are plenty
and there might be even ones where we
don't release
the next few years so that's the
approach
and yeah and hopefully those two pr's
will eventually be
merged we'll see um
other news which probably rod would have
talked about if he would be there
and he spent time on chase multi-formats
j stack bb
and js x seabor
making them compatible with this whole
typescript thing
and commentaries and me six
they are pr's currently and i think they
look good
um they still need approval but then i
think
when he's back and those will be merged
and then
um again the pr um
mentioned previously can also be updated
and then we should have
typing properly done for the whole new
js multi-formats
stack that we have
[Music]
yes so that's all i have next on the
list is eric
okay i get to be a little bit excited
this week after some doldrum times
because i found some tooling that i have
wanted to
find for the longest time and i'm happy
with it
and we're gonna get some more docs and
specs
website work for me um i found a new
static site generator tool that i'm very
excited about that has
um it just checks all the boxes and
features
it is still javascript based so we can
do all sorts of extensions in there
like we can bring along the syntax
highlighter extensions it'll still use
highlight js
but it's also multiple orders of
magnitude base 10
faster than the viewpress shenanigans
that we were previously experiencing
which makes me very happy
and it has much much much much trimmer
outputs as well it doesn't throw a bunch
of
i'm not going to talk about how i feel
about viewpress anymore on camera let's
put it that way
this new tool i'm checking out is called
11 tjs and it's
just good it's i've done some demo
prototype work with it already
i've tried eight different static site
generators
to the degree of hands-on trying it not
just reading about it but
built the demo eight this one is good
i'm so happy so um anyway
so i'm gonna be doing a bunch of work on
that um my dream is still to be unifying
a bunch of different repos
as i go through this and getting more of
this content in one place
i will still keep things organized into
docs directories versus specs
directories because the
writing style and the audience and even
the contribution flows might be rather
distinct for those things
but i'm gonna get them in one repo and
then also do a bunch more documentation
of all the other stuff
that is in our periphery like i want to
start gathering links to
all the different cool tools that are
not in core libraries per se but like
are in our ecosystem so i'm looking
forward to that
um and i will also warn everyone in the
area that this will involve me chasing
people
about merging any prs that are in the
specs repos or
the docs repos or anything around there
because
i want to i want to unify all these
repos and i want to bring the
history along as much as possible so i'm
going to hope that we can merge
every single thing or decide to close it
because i want to drag them all into one
place
so open pr's are going to be my enemy
for a while
uh so lots of people got lots of emails
about that from github i think
and i'm gonna keep chasing people and
it's a darn shame rod is off today
because
he has several and
uh yeah that's mine my big excitement
thanks and next one is real
cool so we're continuing sort of in a
slower way to
land the remaining things that need to
happen in this ipld and ipfs
um work stream and
um in doing these things and code
reviews and so forth
a couple things that came up as
interesting um
the there is a sharness test that
uses json to make a dag pb
block within ipfs now that we're using
ipld prime codecs it has become apparent
that we can no longer do this
because our json codec does not
actually implement the part of the dag
json spec in which you can
have bytes so you cannot make the bytes
field in the data
key of a dagpv thing and so it then
complains and will never allow you to
represent the schema that one could turn
into a wpb object
it would be nice if this was possible
still
upon update puppy eyes
okay so that was the request one um
second thing that that i want to note
that we ran into when talking with the
dean about interfaces
is um we have selectors in ipld prime
as a x like a compiled thing that
that has a data representation that is a
node and then the
from the node you parse this lecture and
you get a selector um
there's a reason on things like the
request to fetch
a dag based on this lecture that what
you might want is the data
representation of it
because that still may go across a
network and need to be in its data
format
before it is executed and turned into a
selector like you may need the data
representation of it
um but one thing you'll note is when you
do that you end up with an interface
where
it's like fetch of node comma node as
your type signature
um and then the person who gets the type
signature hint is like which one is the
selector and which one is the dag root
node that i'm doing
because these are the same types and so
question is there a way to take a
selector and get back to the node
because what we want is a selector and
if there would be a convenient way to go
back to the node
representation of that selector then we
could be clear
in our interface usage so
a thing to think about and then
separately from that
there's been some talk in um
go data transfer slash grab sync land
that you're receiving a bunch of blocks
right now the way that happens is it
puts it into a badger data store
and then at the end it runs uh a
traversal over that and
serializes it into a car and the
overhead of writing it once into badger
and then reading it all again and
putting it into a car
and having the badger not clean up
necessarily has led to complexity and
people being somewhat unhappy and so
there was a request of can we
stream it directly into a car as we
receive blocks
keep an index over them because the
thing that we need is the block store
part of being able to get
items as we're doing that that wasn't
something that carbs
did carbs would take a static car
and would generate an index over it so
that it could function as a read-only
block store
but i did a first pass at an
implementation of a thing that will
also support put by appending them on
and appending to a
insertion sort based index um so that
you can do that and then you can get
a single car and carbs at the end it
does make an invalid car in that it does
not put any
roots in the header unless you specify
them in advance which is so i guess you
can make a valid car
but you can also make an invalid car you
can also just sort of put blocks that
aren't referenced anywhere
so that could be bad you can also put
them in some weird order that isn't the
same order that a traversal would end up
putting them in so if
so it's not necessarily going to hash
the same thing
so you may still need to do a re read
over that car with its index into
another car
if you want to make sure that your
hashes match what you would expect
for like the we have a single canonical
thing that the state ends
um it sounds like the current go data
transfer
does receive blocks in in order and so
you could
directly do this and skip the additional
read and write but
you might want to at least verify so
there's there's some other work in sort
of how you use this
it has sharp edges um but yeah
seemed like a relevant thing to do on
cars there's a conversation going on
like
is this enough do we want to do the dar
based thing
um and where is that all heading or car
v2 or whatever
there continues to be some conversation
on cars i think uh if you're interested
in that discussion
raul is probably going to continue to be
the point person
that's it for me
thanks
[Music]
then i have an agenda item which is not
super exciting because we've talked
about it briefly last week
but i wanted to make it official that so
we've talked about if we should make
this meeting really
so we skipped last week if we should do
this meeting every two weeks only
um so i now would like to ask officially
like should we do this meeting only
every two weeks as we don't have that
many updates
so is this a yes okay
so i will so i will make sure to
basically update the
the readme and the calendar invite and
all those things and i will call it the
every two weeks meeting to make rod
happy
um yeah
cool um
yeah so that's all i have uh
are there any other things
uh will do you want to just talk through
some of the stuff that you raised
i've looked at that pr where you have
the two different kinds of nodes
and they're both the word node in the
goeng contract and
i agree that that is confusing and sucks
uh i
don't know what we should do about it
though it's kind of also the truth of
the matter
like you've got these two data model
trees and like
and and that's just what you think yeah
it's it's just sort of unfortunate
um i mean we put in names of the
variables and that helps
right um but like the
the golang type checker can't really
do anything useful to help you either
because like
that's a that selector node tree
where have you been able to verify this
right and how can we tell the compiler
about
it i don't think i want i don't think i
care i'm not i'm not trying to get
rest level stack typing it's much more
for the programmer who's using it right
of like
just it's very clear to them which order
to put the arguments when they call this
method
like that's a that's a thing for the
person not for the
you could use the golang type alias
feature if it made you
feel good but it wouldn't
check a dang thing so yeah
yeah i don't think we would want to make
the
parse selector type hang on to that
whole tree unconditionally either
because that's
just like i think they tend to be
weirdly high overhead
if you didn't want it
um on dec json bytes so
yes there's definitely a missing feature
in the globally prime codec
implementation here
um were you able to narrow down
whether the legacy feature in ipfs that
we're trying to support
does it actually match the way that we
updated the json spec to describe these
bytes
or is it close or is it i mean
i thought that there was some api that
took some json-like thing and it
happened to have a way of representing
bytes but it wasn't necessarily the same
as what the
json spec actually stated i have not
looked
i tried it in the way that the specs
stated and i did not get bytes out
okay okay i thought this was more
complicated than it is then
then i gave up and handcrafted some cbor
and used seabora as my example instead
i guess it might so so just remember
that also rod
tried to nail this down because i
i even kind of recall like what we
agreed on like should it now be
with uh multi-base
or not and stuff like this so i'm even
not sure if there's like
i'll agree that that part we're going to
ditch because introducing
more multi-base varieties just made it
harder for us to have a canonical form
and nobody liked it
the point was not that you can have
different multi-bases but should be
so we agreed on the the binary form
should be base 64.
but the question was should the base
encoded thing
have the first byte prefix as a
multi-base or not
it was one discussion and i as i said i
can't recall the outcome
but i think rod has an opinion so anyway
so just if anyone
implements it just be prepared that you
might
change this first byte at one point and
yeah whatever we decided or decide
um i i think that we should just
force that decision immediately and
then stick with it this is also one of
the things that's currently an open pr
in the specs repo which i just
discovered during my
review of which things i need to chase
people about and
so yeah there are now multiple reasons
why i want that to
be decided and land yes but i
but i would like like i would happily
defer this decision to
rod so i don't care what it is but roger
to make the decision because like he
spent a lot of time with him it's his pr
so yes i'm going to bother him yeah so
he should like
yeah so i'm happy with whatever like he
put so much thought into it
so i'm happy on but he should make the
decision
because like yeah he spent so much time
on it
yeah cool
[Music]
uh what's what this look
where that was all the items we had i
guess so
i think so um anything else
a little carbon indexing thing you're
doing is cool that is all
there's another couple implementations
that we probably should
also write so that we can do a speed
comparison and figure out what actually
makes sense in terms of how to minimize
system calls
overhead
so is this basically an index over
so it's a car file that also has an
index
okay i should check it out
as i've spent a decade on indexing so
it's not a very
yeah i was going to say it's an external
index it's not
part of the car file itself
it's there's a separate file that will
be named the same as the car file within
a dot idx
and that contains a map of sid to their
offset in the car
okay cool
and it's just the sit in the offset so
nothing fancy okay
it allows i made i i should i don't know
if i should register this in multi codec
or something but
i i use a first byte uvarium to select
what type of format it is because i
tried a few different ones
um i think i didn't overlap with the
space of other multi-things
okay but like you can serialize that
just as like a fixed
width if you know that all of your um
sids
are the same hash then you know then you
can just say great
for this file it's going to be like 32
bytes of
hash and then 8 bytes of offset and
now you can stride it very easily if
they're different if you've got
multiple types of hashes then you can't
do that of course
um so it's got a sort of a selector at
the very beginning of like is this one
where you can do the striding on
or is this just like we put it in a hash
map and we call it gob hash on it and
it's whatever
crazy thing golang has decided to
represent it in as its memory
or is it so like i yeah there were a few
different ones i tried
to get relative size and performance
okay um and is the yeah because
i was asking because like when i did
some indexing stuff um
i did for example only store the like a
pre like the the smallest
smallest not common prefix
of the cads of the file
so i'm not doing any of that coolness
yeah absolutely yeah but another index
could certainly
do that because then it'll look up and
verify it in the actual car
based on the offset it gets out of the
index so yes you could make something
that's smaller by just doing
useful prefixes um but i also guess like
the
the the case is not like huge data sets
like the use case is not having
oh
i wouldn't be so sure about that okay
because like like
if you store the the cd and the index
you basically store the
cd twice right yep okay
which might be but i think we're going
to want the whole cids in the index
depending on the use for local lookups
you don't need it
if you if this is an index that you want
to give to some other node to be able to
then know what you have
you probably want to give it the whole
cids
oh if you only care about the cids
so if you're if you're trying to export
your content discovery side things
of like what is on this node can i just
give you an index which is essentially
at that point all i need to give you is
the list of cids but hey i've got this
convenient thing already that is
the list of cids and then some ants but
you don't care about the ants but hey
this is
basically the list of cids that you care
about um
so depending on purpose yes i agree yeah
okay
yeah although even then i'm not sure if
anyway yeah it's a simple discussion but
yeah it's but it's
like also like yeah you can certainly
add those things so if you end up with
the problem of the index is too big
you can of course do something about it
but as long as it's not a problem
it's not a problem exactly okay
cool um
anyway in case you ever end up with you
wanted the
smallest prefix the code is already
there in rust and
go so just awesome yeah and it was like
it was
trickier than i thought actually which
is also so it has tests
because i was like yeah i screwed up a
few times so
um well pull requests welcome to add an
additional more efficient index
yeah cool all right um
okay cool i think then if there's there
isn't anything else
i close the meeting and see you all
again in two weeks which
is the 26th of
april so